[rocprofiler-compute][docs] update docs to reference rocprofiler-sdk (#4212)
ROCm/rocm-systems: projects/rocprofiler-compute/docs/how-to/profile/mode.rst

* :ref:`Automate counter collection <profiling-routine>`: ROCm Compute Profiler handles all
  of your profiling via pre-configured input files.

* :ref:`Profiling output format <profiling-output-format>`: ROCm Compute Profiler can adjust the

>   output format of underlying rocprofiler-sdk which changes the output format of raw performance

Reviewer: Channeling Pratik review methodology here asking for the official stylized naming convention

```suggestion
  output format of underlying ROCprofiler-SDK which changes the output format of raw performance
```

Reviewer: Please apply this to any applicable places in the PR as needed that doesn't involve a "code-like" phrase.

Author: updated all text instances of `rocprofiler-sdk` to `ROCprofiler-SDK`.

>   output format of underlying ROCprofiler-SDK which changes the output format of raw performance

Reviewer 2: Although the underlying profiling backend is always rocprofiler-sdk, we may also use rocprofv3 or the native tool. So, the `underlying profiling tool` would be more appropriate.

The same applies in other places where `ROCprofiler-SDK` is mentioned.

Author: This is a good point! Added section [Configuring the environment for profiling](https://github.com/ROCm/rocm-systems/blob/5a9eec4d396fe9259c9c7ed7bf7e56472725c767/projects/rocprofiler-compute/docs/install/core-install.rst#configuring-the-environment-for-profiling) in `core-install.rst` to explain the different configurations available.

However, the native counter collection tool uses ROCprofiler-SDK via API calls, so the underlying tool is still ROCprofiler-SDK. And references to `rocprofiler-sdk` is still valid.

  of your profiling via pre-configured input files.

* :ref:`Profiling output format <profiling-output-format>`: ROCm Compute Profile can adjust the
  output format of underlying rocprofiler-sdk which changes the output format of raw performance
  counter data in the workload folder created during profiling. Supported output formats are
  ``csv`` and ``rocpd``. The default output format is ``csv``.

> 

Author: outdated

   ...

   100% [||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||]
   Peak MFMA FLOPs (F32), GPU ID: 0, workgroupSize:256, workgroups:38912, experiments:100, FLOP:1275068416000, duration:8.23 ms, mean:154854.6 GFLOPS, stdev:1782.6 GFLOPS
   100% [||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||]
   Peak MFMA FLOPs (F64), GPU ID: 0, workgroupSize:256, workgroups:38912, experiments:100, FLOP:637534208000, duration:4.09 ms, mean:155983.3 GFLOPS, stdev:1811.2 GFLOPS
   100% [||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||]
   Peak MFMA IOPs (I8), GPU ID: 0, workgroupSize:256, workgroups:38912, experiments:100, IOP:10200547328000, duration:4.52 ms, mean:2258954.1 GOPS, stdev:41800.0 GFLOPS
      INFO [roofline] Roofline data saved to /home/auser/rocm-systems/projects/rocprofiler-compute/workloads/vcopy/MI325X/roofline.csv
   Run 'rocprof-compute analyze -p /home/auser/rocm-systems/projects/rocprofiler-compute/workloads/vcopy/MI325X' for charts

.. tip::

   To reduce verbosity of profiling output try the ``--quiet`` flag. This hides

>    ``rocprofiler-sdk`` output and activates a progress bar.

Reviewer 3: For "This hides...."
Confirm if it should be ROCprofiler-SDK, rocprofv3, or ``rocprofiler-sdk``.

   Peak VALU FLOPs (FP32), GPU ID: 0, workgroupSize:256, workgroups:38912, experiments:100, FLOP:5222680231936, duration:34.3 ms, mean:152104.8 GFLOPS, stdev=1073.6 GFLOPS
   Peak VALU FLOPs (FP64), GPU ID: 0, workgroupSize:256, workgroups:38912, experiments:100, FLOP:2611340115968, duration:33.4 ms, mean:78139.4 GFLOPS, stdev=375.4 GFLOPS
   Peak VALU IOPs (INT8), GPU ID: 0, workgroupSize:256, workgroups:38912, experiments:100, IOP:2611340115968, duration:39.7 ms, mean:65694.3 GOPS, stdev=139.4 GFLOPS
   Peak VALU IOPs (INT32), GPU ID: 0, workgroupSize:256, workgroups:38912, experiments:100, IOP:2611340115968, duration:35.5 ms, mean:73480.1 GOPS, stdev=966.2 GFLOPS
   Peak VALU IOPs (INT64), GPU ID: 0, workgroupSize:256, workgroups:38912, experiments:100, IOP:1305670057984, duration:52.0 ms, mean:25094.8 GOPS, stdev=379.2 GFLOPS
   Peak MFMA FLOPs (F8), GPU ID: 0, workgroupSize:256, workgroups:38912, experiments:100, FLOP:10200547328000, duration:4.69 ms, mean:2173233.1 GFLOPS, stdev:40442.7 GFLOPS
   Peak MFMA FLOPs (F16), GPU ID: 0, workgroupSize:256, workgroups:38912, experiments:100, FLOP:5100273664000, duration:4.80 ms, mean:1062377.5 GFLOPS, stdev:38988.4 GFLOPS

>    Peak MFMA FLOPs (BF16), GPU ID: 0, workgroupSize:256, workgroups:38912, experiments:100, FLOP:5100273664000, duration:4.36 ms, mean:1169793.8 GFLOPS, stdev:20656.5 GFLOPS

Reviewer 4: Is this a copied new original output or edited from old? 

Where is the microbenchmark progress bars?

Author: Nice catch! This branch was out-of-date against develop, updated example with the latest profiling output.

   $ tree workloads/vcopy

   └── MI325X

>     ├── empirRoof_gpu-0_FP32.html

Reviewer: Please remove this empirRoof line.
The html plots are no longer generated in profile mode as of this past week. They only get generated in analyze mode

Author: removed all instances of `empirRoof.html`

   $ tree /tmp/profiles/amd-ryzen/0

   └── MI325X

>     ├── empirRoof_gpu-0_FP32.html

Reviewer: Same as above, removing the empiRoof line

Author: removed all instances of `empirRoof.html`

-----------------------

Use the ``--format-rocprof-output <format>`` profile mode option to specify the output format
of the underlying ``rocprofiler-sdk``. The following formats are supported:

* ``csv`` format:
   * Ask underlying rocprofiler-sdk to dump raw performance counter data in csv format.
   * The generated csv files across multiple runs are processed and dumped into the workload directory as csv files.
   * Multiple csv files are merged into single pmc_perf.csv file in workload directory.

* ``rocpd`` format:
   * Ask underlying rocprofiler-sdk to dump raw performance counter data in rocpd format.

>    * Multiple ``rocpd`` database files containing counter collection data are merged into a single csv under the workload folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Multiple ``rocpd`` database files containing counter collection data are processed into separate csv files (results_0.csv, results_1.csv, etc.) under the workload folder.
```
Please revert this line, as of recently there is a change to not merge the csv pmc perf files after profiling. @vedithal-amd to confirm

Author: I think I have a misunderstanding here, I thought `rocpd` would only result in one single `pmc_perf.csv` as opposed to multiple `results_*.csv`'s. Please do confirm, @vedithal-amd.

   INFO Target: MI325X
   INFO Command: ./tests/occupancy -n 1048576 -b 256
   INFO Kernel Selection: None
   INFO Dispatch Selection: None
   INFO Filtered sections: ['4']
   INFO
   INFO ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
   INFO Collecting Performance Counters (Roofline Only)
   INFO ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
   INFO
   INFO [Run 1/3][Approximate profiling time left: pending first measurement...]
   INFO [profiling] Current input file: /home/auser/rocprofiler-compute/workloads/occupancy/MI325X/perfmon/pmc_perf_0.txt
   ...
   INFO [roofline] Checking for roofline.csv in /home/auser/rocprofiler-compute/workloads/occupancy/MI325X
   INFO [roofline] No roofline data found. Generating...
   Empirical Roofline Calculation
   Copyright © 2026  Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All rights reserved.
   Total detected GPU devices: 8
   GPU Device 0 (gfx942) with 304 CUs: Profiling...
   99% [||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||| ]
   ...

An inspection of our workload output folder shows ``roofline.csv`` was generated
successfully.

.. code-block:: shell-session

   $ ls workloads/occupancy/MI325X
   total 48

>    -rw-r--r-- 1 auser agroup 13331 Mar 21 23:49 empirRoof_gpu-0_FP32.html

Reviewer: empirRoof removal from profile mode run

Author: removed.

   $ tree /tmp/mpi_profile/0

   └── MI325X

>     ├── empirRoof_gpu-0_FP32.html

Reviewer: empirRoof removal

Author: removed.

   $ tree ./workloads/laplace_eqn/0

   └── MI325X

>     ├── empirRoof_gpu-0_FP32.html

Reviewer: empirRoof removal

Author: removed.

   $ tree /tmp/mpi_profile/amd-ryzen/0

   └── MI325X

>     ├── empirRoof_gpu-0_FP32.html

Reviewer: empirRoof removal

Author: removed.
